IBX-8104: Document how to configure elastic search with analyzers for different languages (#2366)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/search/search_engines/elastic_search/configure_elastic_search.md

                            tokenizer: lowercase
                            filter:
                                - lowercase
                                - ibexa_spellcheck_shingle_filter
                        ibexa_spellcheck_raw_analyzer:
                            type: custom
                            tokenizer: standard
                            filter:
                                - lowercase
                                - english_possessive_stemmer
                    filter:
                        ibexa_spellcheck_shingle_filter:
                            type: shingle
                            min_shingle_size: 2
                            max_shingle_size: 3
+                        english_stop:
+                            type: stop
+                            stopwords: "_english_"
+                        english_keywords:
+                            type: keyword_marker
+                            keywords: []
+                        english_stemmer:
+                            type: stemmer
+                            language: light_english
+                        "english_possessive_stemmer": {

> +                          "type":       "stemmer",
> +                          "language":   "possessive_english"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+                          "type": "stemmer",
+                          "language": "possessive_english"
```

                # ...
```

### Language specific analyzis

It is possible to configure language specific analysis like stemming so that searching for "cars" will give hit on content that contain the word "car".
On a multilingual site, it is possible to have different analyzing configured for different languages, something which
typically is needed as stemming rules are language specific.

#### Make a copy of the default template

> The first step in order to enable language specific analysis is to make a new template for each language in `config/packages/ibexa_elasticsearch.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step to enable language specific analysis is to make a new template for each language in `config/packages/ibexa_elasticsearch.yaml`.
```

This template should be based on the `default` template found in `vendor/ibexa/elasticsearch/src/bundle/Resources/config/default-config.yaml`.

> The name of the new template should reflect the language, ie. `english`, `norwegian` or `french`,

Author: In such case, it should read:
```suggestion
The name of the new template should indicate the language it applies to, for example `eng_gb`, `nor_no` or `fre_fr`.
```

#### Change match pattern for the new template

The default template matches on `*_location_*`, `*_content_*`. This pattern is not language specific and cannot be used
when different templates are going to be used for different languages. In your copy of the default template, change the
pattern as follows:

```diff
        patterns:
-            - '*_location_*'
-            - '*_content_*'
+            - "*_eng_gb*"
```

This pattern matches on English. See [Define a template](#define-a-template) on how to specify the pattern for your language.

#### Create config for language specific analyser.

[Elastic Search documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.17/analysis-lang-analyzer.html)
explains how to configure analyzer for each specific language.

Adopopting the [English analyzer](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.17/analysis-lang-analyzer.html#english-analyzer)

> will look like this in the [[= product_name =]] configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
looks like this in the [[= product_name =]] configuration:
```

                            mapping:
                                type: keyword
                    -   ez_mid:
                            match: "*_mid"
                            mapping:
                                type: keyword
                    -   ez_string:
                            match: "*_s"
                            mapping:
                                type: keyword
                                normalizer: lowercase_normalizer
                    -   ez_mstring:
                            match: "*_ms"
                            mapping:
                                type: keyword
                                normalizer: lowercase_normalizer
                    -   ez_long:
                            match: "*_l"
                            mapping:
                                type: long
                    -   ez_mlong:
                            match: "*_ml"
                            mapping:
                                type: long
+                    -   ez_text_fulltext:
+                            match: "*_fulltext"
+                            mapping:
+                                type: text

> +                                analyzer: english_analyzer

Author: With [this PR](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-elastic-search-engine/pull/57) merged, the diff will look slightly different in next versions.

Do we adjust for that now, or do it after the next releases of 3.3 and 4.6 ?

Reviewer: I used https://github.com/ibexa/elasticsearch/blob/v4.6.7/src/bundle/Resources/config/default-config.yaml#L73-L76 for the template so we're OK for this PR. I'll take time to check while adapting to 3.3.

These patterns are not language-specific and you cannot use them if you plan to use different templates for different languages.
In your copy of the default template, change the pattern as follows:

```diff
        patterns:
-            - '*_location_*'
-            - '*_content_*'
+            - "*_eng_gb*"
```

This pattern matches on English.
For more information about specifying the pattern for your language, see [Define a template](#define-a-template).

#### Create config for language specific analyzer

For information about configuring an analyzer for each specific language, see [Elastic Search documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.17/analysis-lang-analyzer.html).

An adoption of the [English analyzer](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.17/analysis-lang-analyzer.html#english-analyzer) in [[= product_name =]] configuration looks like this:

```yaml hl_lines="3-5 15-23 35 41-52 94 99"
[[= include_file('code_samples/search/elasticsearch/config/packages/elasticsearch-en.yaml') =]]
```

Then, you must bind this language template to your Elasticsearch connection.

## Bind templates with connections

> Once you have created the field mapping template(s), you must establish a relationship between the templates and a connection. You do this by adding the "index_templates" key to a connection definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have to create an index template (for example, for specific data types, or linguistic analysis), you must link this template to an Elasticsearch connection. You do this by adding the `index_templates` key to a connection definition.
```

@dabrt What do you think about this rewriting? Any counterproposal?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create an index template (for example, for specific data types or linguistic analysis), you must link it to an Elasticsearch connection by adding the index_templates key to the connection definition.
```
